.TH DECnet  7 2011-11-24 "Linux Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
DECnet \- Linux DECnet protocol implementation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netdnet/dn.h>
.br
.B #include <netdnet/dnetdb.h> \fR/* access to system databases */

.sp
.IB decnet_socket " = socket(AF_DECnet, SOCK_SEQPACKET, DNPROTO_NSP);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux implements DECnet, Phase IV.
.PP
The programming interface is BSD sockets compatible.
For more information on sockets, see
.BR socket (7).

.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT AND NODE NAMES"
On DECnet each system in the network is called a "node". A node has an address and
normally a node name. The Node name is a six character long string
(for example: "mynode" or "node33"). The address consists of an area and a node part.
Both parts are seperated by a period (for example: 1.10, 5.12, 42.768).
The area part is 6 bits long (0-63) and the node part is 10 bits long (0-1023).
This results in a 16 bit address. area zero as well as node zero is reserved for
special purpose and is invalid for real node addesses.
.PP
The node address is normally packed into two bytes. The six most significant bits
of the upper byte are the area while the lower two bits as well as the eight bits are
the node part. On ethernet the node address directly mapps to a fixed MAC address.
The MAC address is the packed node address prefixed by AA:00:04:00.
For example the node 5.126 has a fixed MAC address of AA:00:04:00:7E:14.
.PP
Services are called objects on DECnet. They are identified by number or name.
Each object has a eight bit number called the object number.
Objects with a object number other than zero are assigned to fixed protocols.
No other protocol must be used with those numbers.
.br
Objects with a object number of zero are identified by object name.
The name is a string of up to sixteen bytes. Is does not need to be terminated
by zero. Such a name is no alias to a hidden object number but the identifier
as transmitted over the wire. Because of this there is no need to register
those names anywhere.

.SH "SOCKET OPTIONS"
.SH SYSCTLS
.SH IOCTLS
.SH NOTES
As DECnet needs to set the MAC address of the used interfaces it MUST be started before
protocols are started using the MAC address for other tasks than lowlevel addressing.
This includes IP and DHCP. Some operating system vendors randomly messes up with the
startup order of services. This can result in non working networks.

.SH ERRORS
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The DECnet protocol is supported by upstream kernel since 2.4.
There was patches for older kernels as well.
.br
The on-wire protocol is fully compatible with the specifications and implementations
by DEC and other vendors for VMS and other systems.
.PP
Some higher protocols are implemented by the same userland package (dnprogs)
as the base implementation of DECnet itself. For the status of those
protocol implementations see the individual documentation.

.SH BUGS


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR socket (7)
